in the name of Allah the most
gracious the most merciful
subul Excellence
presents alhamdulillah listens
from the stories of the
prophets by
mu introduction to stories of the prophets
all praise is due to Allah subhanahu wa
ta'ala blessings and salutations upon
Muhammad sallallah alaihi wasallam we
ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala to bless
him and all his companions and we ask Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala to bless every single one
of us my beloved brothers and sisters
in Islam it brings tears to the eyes
in gratitude to Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
for having granted us the acceptance to
witness this blessed month tonight being the
first night of the month of Ramadan 1432 hij
1,432 years after the Hijra of Muhammad
sallallahu alaihi wasallam and we are
seated here in the house of Allah subhanahu
wa'ta'ala far away in the City of Cape Town
in this beautiful Masid Z Islam we ask Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala to accept every single
effort of ours every one of us who has made an
effort to come here this evening all the listeners
all the viewers every single person we ask Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala to grant us all forgiveness
and we ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala to lighten up
our lives just like we notic the difference when
these lights were put on we ask Allah subahu wa
taala to increase Us in new and to grant us the
full use of this month of Ramadan really it is a
sacrifice it is a month of sacrifice it is a month
where we will be abstaining from many things
for the pleasure of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
from a certain time to a certain time and in the
evenings we will be sacrificing again to stand
in Long prayer solely for the pleasure of Allah
subhanahu wa'ta'ala remember it is an effort that
will make us from amongst those who are successful
those who are not prepared to put an effort or to
make an effort what type of success do they expect
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala accept our efforts
this [Music] evening inshallah I have decided
to embark on a series known as lessons from the
stories of the prophets may peace be upon them
all that are mentioned in the Quran and as you
know it is very important to introduce a topic
so tonight will be dedicated to the introduction
and it is very important that we know what is it
that Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala expects from us
we all know that we were created by Allah we were
created by Allah subhanal we call him we call him
Lord of the worlds and the word r does not have
an English translation it would require a whole
paragraph for us to understand what is meant by
it and for this reason some of the scholars have
said the term R includes the one who created the
one who nourishes cherishes provides for protects
the one in absolute control of all the aspects
of of existence is known as R so this is why
why when we say we are referring to whoever
made us and whoever is in absolute control
Allah subhanahu wa taal grant us the understanding
before I commence it is very important for me to
make mention of the fact that each one of us would
like to achieve the pleasure of the one who made
us and each one of us would like to achieve the
paradise that he has prepared for us but where
did we come to learn about this paradise from and
where did we come to learn about the fact that
there is life after death we came to learn of it
from the Creator himself when he created us he did
not just leave us without giving us an instruction
or a manual or sending us messenges to remind
us indeed there is no nation that has passed
except that there has been a messenger who
was sent to that Nation a reminder a Warner the
word NAD in actual fact means a Warner one who
warns to say oh man you are not in existence
in order to enjoy your life you are actually
here as an examination and the qualification of
that examination will determine your status in
the real life which is the life after death
and this is why all the messengers of Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala they they were more interested
in the life after death and in the Hereafter than
this dun none of them gave preference to this
world it's important for us to know this and
it's important also for us to know that when Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala created us and sent Messengers
and sent messages with those Messengers there
were two types of people that he sent one were
those known as rul and the others were known as
there is a difference between a rasool and a Nai
so what is the difference one is a messenger
and one is a prophet the one who has a higher
status is a rasool a messenger because every
messenger is a prophet but not every Prophet is
a messenger and here I'm using the English
language although I've used the word Ras
or the word Messenger to refer to rasool what
is meant by this a rasool is a person who came
with a new sh with some law with a book with
something that Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala gave
him an instruction Revelation and Allah said go
and teach this to the people and go and warn them
and so on that is known as a rasool a person who's
a messenger given a message to go and deliver and
a Nabi who is a prophet is one who also delivered
the message of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala but not
given to him specifically but rather given to
some me to some messenger who came before him so
this is why when we look at har Allah subhanahu wa
tala speaks about him in the Quran and Allah says
Allah speaks about Moses may peace be upon Him
M and Allah says we gave him or we sent with him
Haron or Aaron may peace be upon him as a Nai
which means as a prophet to help him so whose
message was it it was the message of Allah given
to whom given to Moses may peace be upon him but
Haram was assisting that is a very simple verse
if you'd like to know you can memorize that verse
if was a then it's automatically known that AOL
is higher than a may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
grant us understanding so Allah subhanahu wa
ta'ala sent two types of people but there is
a third type of person who is neither a Nai nor
a rasool but he is a rasool of a rasool which
means he is a messenger of a messenger and who
is that every single one of us Subhan Allah we
are all messengers of s alaihi wasallam we have
the message it is our duty to learn it it is our
duty to practice upon it and it is our duty to
teach it to others this is why when wasallam was
sending one of his companions to Yemen and he
asked him a few questions at the end of that he
says praise be to Allah subhanahu wa taala who
has granted acceptance to the messenger of the
messenger of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala to that
which has pleased the messenger of Allah subhanahu
wa taala so Allah guided mu and Allah subhanahu
wa taala obviously had sent Muhammad sahu alai
wasallam and Muhammad sahu alaihi wasallam
in turn sent and he has informed all of us go
and convey the message even if it means a small
verse so every one of us inshallah we have that
status may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala accept us
for that now it is important for us to also go
through the creation of man why Allah created
us and how he created us it is impossible to
know that except through Revelation and this is
what makes us Believers if you take a look at the
Jewish scriptures or the Christian scriptures the
scriptures of the Muslims you will find there are
are some similarities when it comes to the stories
of the previous Nations and how time began and
how man were was created and so on but we adopt
and we follow the Quran because we believe that
there is a lot of rust that has crept into the
previous scriptures they are debating amongst
themselves as to what is authentic and there are
so many different versions of the Bibles and the
scriptures that we have to discount them and we
have to adopt what the Quran has said because
no doubt it is pure and it is pristine and there
is no ways that anybody can argue with that may
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us acceptance so
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala created us and when he
told us whatever he told us he told that to us
through Revelation so therefore a person who's
a non-believer or who does not believe in any
of the Heavenly religions they would not know
what happened and if they were to tell you what
happened it means they got it from a Heavenly
scripture No scientist can tell you that the
first person created was created in this way
and his name was Adam and nobody can tell you
that then there was haah and what happened so
we need to be Muslim we need to be submitters we
need to be M Believers in the Unseen and we need
to know that these scriptures that have come they
have come as a gift from Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
to us now if we take a look at the Quran Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala has revealed this book and it
is a very very blessed book and Allah has given us
the Muslims a month known as Shah Quran it is the
month of the Quran and Allah subhanahu wa'ta'ala
has kept it the same month as the month of fasting
and Allah subhanahu wa'ta'ala speaks about a night
in this month that is so powerful in it the Quran
was sent down from the preserved tablet to the
lowest heaven allahar and this is why he says
we have indeed revealed it in the night
of decree translates as the night of the
night of decree when all that is going
to happen for the next year is written
by Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala it is called Al
the night of decree we all call it the night
of power because it also depicts the power of
Allah subhanahu wa'ta'ala so it is important an
for us to know that there is no doubt in the
book that Allah has revealed and as Muslims
we are fortunate to be from amongst those
who follow a religion that makes it a duty
upon us to study all the verses of the Quran
not just a few verses and Allah says why he
revealed the Quran we need to know this why
did Allah reveal the Quran why did he create
man why did he do this why did he do that the
answers are in the Quran this is why Allah
says it is a book that we have
revealed to you oh Muhammad s
wasam it is so
blessed in order for its verses to be pondered
upon so why did Allah reveal the Quran in
order for its verses to be pondered upon that is
the reason so how many of us have pondered over
the verses of the Quran how many of us have
understood why Allah revealed the Quran did
he just reveal it that we can recite it no point
in understanding or no interest in understanding
it did he reveal it so that we can use it as a
pillow we read it at night and then we put it
away and go and sleep and the following morning
we get up no take a look at what has happened to
the Bible and to the other books [Music] very
few followers of those books have read those
books cover to cover but every one of us have
heard the Quran cover to cover by the will of
Allah this is why in the month of Ramadan what
are we doing great effort is required to prepare
the twi to come for the twi to stand in the it is
not simple it is not easy to be standing for one
hour trying to concentrate on the words that is
a sacrifice that is an act of worship that is a
gift that Allah has given myself and yourselves so
treat it as a gift and understand that if we have
not tried to ponder if we have not
tried to ponder over the verses of
the Quran then we don't even understand why it was
revealed so every one of us needs to try our
best to ponder over the verses of the Quran
and inshallah this is what we will be trying
to do during the month of Ramadan I encourage
myself and yourselves to try our best to read
a portion of the Quran in a language that we
understand as well because without that we won't
be able to succeed imagine Allah sends with us a
manual to say this is how you should operate
yourself and we don't know about that manual
I decided to spend a few moments to explain
the importance of this book because it is the
month of the Quran and not only the recitation
in the Arabic language yes that is important
very important but more than that is to understand
the Quran the message of Allah I've heard people
saying it is Haram to read the meaning of the
Quran where did they get that from we want to
know how can we we behave like those of the
previous scriptures and prohibit our people
from trying to understand the word of the one who
made them when Allah asks me after I've died and
you that I sent a book did you read it did you try
to understand it what will our answer be and then
if you were to ask us how many books have you
read and understood and we will be mentioning
all the novels and all the little story books
and fairy tales and bedtime stories that we've
read we give preference to Harry Potter over the
Quran it's a fact we give preference to all these
other books over the Quran it's a fact I think
it's about time we use this Ramadan to change that
we can change it and this is why we have reminders
of this nature this is why we are standing up here
reminding ourselves and yourselves to say it is
about time yeah Quran oh umah oh Nation whom the
Quran has been sent to to try and understand this
book I guarantee you it will change your life I
guarantee you it will raise you in spirituality
without a bat of isid Allah abbar that is the
book of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala yes there are
rules and regulations governing how to deal with
a question that crops up on your in your mind
whilst you are reading the meaning those questions
need to be answered by the professionals the those
who know so when you come across a verse you will
find if there is a question in your mind it would
be wrong for you to answer it on your own go and
ask the I read this verse I don't understand
it but there are so many verses in the Quran
that are very easily understood the stories of
the prophets which makes the bulk of the Quran
that's why we want to go into it this year very
easily understood Allah tells us about n Noah
Allah tells us about Jacob about Joseph may peace
be upon them all Allah tells us about L lot may
peace be upon him so it's important inshallah
for us to make an effort to try and read these
stories to try and see why Allah revealed
them why Allah sent them down for what reason
and then inshallah we see
how everything is connected
when Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala sent
Messengers to mankind he selected the
best he did not send messages from amongst the
worst or the mediocre of community no a or a was
always selected the best of them and this is
why there are certain qualities that all the
prophets had we need to know these qualities
because if we'd like to continue the work of
The Messengers we need to try and learn from
what Allah subhanahu wa'ta'ala selected and
chose may he choose us all to serve his
cause Allah says regarding some of his
prophets definitely he was
chosen then Allah says in
Allah has chosen in Allah means to
choose Allah chose Adam we believe that whenever
we say the name of a messenger it is our duty
to say may peace be upon them they have done a
splendid job in fact Muhammad sallallahu alaihi
wasallam says that there is a curse upon the one
who says Muhammad without saying sallallah alai
wasallam may peace be upon him so some of these
qualities The Messengers were always truthful they
never uttered a lie even prior to prophethood
they were known by their people as truthful
always one might ask what about ibraim Alam
we'll get to that inshallah it's not actually
a lie it was something and inshallah when we
speak about ibraim alisam in a few days time
we will get there they were trustworthy and
they were known as trustworthy all of them
so in order for us to be chosen by Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala we need to try our best
to also be truthful and trustworthy because
if a person is not truthful and utters lies
there is a chance they become champions of the
devil and shatan shaan becomes pleased with
them we don't want that so it's about time
we started telling the truth and it's about
time we were honest and trustworthy then all
the messengers were trained in a specific way
do you know what the prophet sallallah wasam
says there was no na except that he was a Shepherd
at one stage he looked after some sheep so Allah
trained them Allah trained them with sheep with
animals before they came to human beings because
what is more difficult to look after animals or to
look after human [Music] beings I see the smiles
mashallah does someone have a doubt here may Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala open our understanding it is
definitely more difficult to look after animals
but in the Quran Allah describes certain people he
says there are certain people who are like
cattle and in fact worse than cattle because
with the sophisticated minds and brains
and eyes and ears and noses that Allah
has given mankind they still don't want to
hear they don't want to see they don't want
to understand Allah says for those type
of people can we equate them to cattle no
no they are worse than cattle Allah abbar may
Allah not make us from amongst those so it's
important for us all to have the quality in us to
want to propagate what we have we want to dish out
what we have that is a quality The Messengers had
that quality they wanted to give the message they
wanted to always spread the goodness they
were not selfish with it so every time we
learn something let us try and think of ways
of how to spread it to whom let me tell you to
whom there was a stage when Muhammad
sallallahu alaihi wasallam was instructed
to start primarily with his family members
so we start with those around us we try and
remind them we want to tell them may
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala make it easy
for us then there is another quality of
The Messengers they were very intelligent
Allah did not send people people who were
thick to a nation no Allah sent highly
intelligent people look at ibraim Alam
Allah says Subhan Allah that he had given
ibraim Allah gave him so much Allah gave him
prophethood Allah gave him wisdom Allah gave
him Authority when he was a young boy look at how
intelligent he was he began questioning and he
debated did you ever know that the messenger who
has debated the most was ibraim Alam his debates
are mentioned in the Quran Allah abbar he had
the most debates from a young age he questioned
he asked the questions and this is why for us
when the young ask questions find answers for
those questions sometimes they are innocent
questions and we rattle out words of rebuke
to these youngsters without even knowing that
this might have shaped some negativity in the
youngster's mind that will last forever
because we did not answer the question
so it's important for us to try and look at the
questions that are being asked and we need to ask
questions as well there was a time when people
used to say don't ask no in Islam it is simple
to understand we ask but we have Iman that when
we are given an answer from Allah's revelation we
surrender to it there we are so there are certain
things we may never understand but we will try our
best to and there are certain explanations for
as long as those explanations are coming coming
from revelation inshallah we surrender to them
it's important for us to know this so the ambah
were always highly intelligent another quality
of the prophets of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
physically they did not have any defect that
was repulsive repulsive meaning chase people
away rather when you looked at them you felt like
getting closer Allah abbar all the messengers
were described as very handsome all of them and
they were not only good-look but they had this
like magnetism do you know what Abdullah says
about Muhammad s Alam he says when I saw the
face of Muhammad saham I knew that this is not
the face of a liar the other describe him and
sayb as though he's a piece of the Moon Subhan
Allah and they have all said we have never
seen anything more beautiful more handsome than
Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam so those who
did not see the light and who did not come closer
to him they had to be really really rejected by
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala for that to happen
it is reported that it is enough for a person
to look at Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
or to be in his company in order to be totally
rectified and known as a sahabi and deserve after
his name the word may Allah be pleased with him
just by being with him for a moment as a mmin as a
Believer but there were others who were fortunate
and unfortunate who were they they were the likes
of Abu jahal and the enemies of Islam who fought
Islam and they fought Muhammad sallallahu alaihi
wasallam they were fortunate in that they lived
in his midst but they did not look at him with
the eye of sincerity even once not even once
so for that reason they did not receive that
cleanliness they did not receive that spiritual
level of sahabi Allah subhanahu wa'ta'ala again
has chosen the sahab of alaihi wasallam then there
is another very important point that we need to
know the messengers were all protected by Allah
from committing sin all of them were meaning they
were protected by Allah from committing sin now
one might ask what about this deed that was done
by mam inshah we will get to that what what about
that which was done by this Nai or that Nai we
will get to that inshallah they were protected by
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala from sin and we need to
know that and we believe that and Allah subhanahu
wa ta'ala thereafter has kept certain merits
in these Messengers The The Messengers whenever
they spoke whenever they uttered whatever they
said was inspired by Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
through divine revelation and we know this
about Muhammad sah alaihi wasallam Allah says
[Applause] in he does not utter anything
from himself it is indeed Revelation that
was revealed it was Revelation that was
revealed so one might say well look once
the prophet sallallah alai wasallam looked away
from abdah and thean came and admonished him so
people say well what was that Allah subhanahu
wa ta'ala had a lesson for us in that because
sometimes it is the plan of Allah subhanahu wa
ta'ala to let something happen so that when the
solution of it is shown or when the remedy of it
is shown the lesson can remain up to the end we
learn a lesson from that that no matter how
high you are no matter how knowledgeable you
are no matter how much you think you know when
you are corrected take it properly and accept
it and be happy that you are corrected when the
prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam was corrected
why was he corrected why did he make a mistake
in the first place because had he not been made
to make that mistake where in his Sunnah would
there be a lesson for those who make mistakes
to learn from Subhan Allah so it was part of
his Perfection to make that mistake for us to
have a perfect example to follow so that when
you make a mistake you know what to do because
when he did it he was also shown or he showed us
what exactly to do I hope we've understood this
then Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala has spoken about
how the messengers none of them sought a reward
none of them wanted money in return for their
message none of them wanted to gain some form
of popularity through their message no this is
why in Surah Yin we know the verse where Allah
subhanahu wa'ta'ala speaks about a man who came
from the innermost part of the city and he says
follow those who are asking no recompense from
you they don't want any reward from you follow
those who are rightly guided may Allah subhanahu
wa'ta'ala grant us an understanding also it is
very important to know that the messengers came
with a direct message they did not beat about the
Bush when Lam came to his people he told them
directly abstain from homosexuality he didn't
say yeah you know now there's something something
you guys need to worry about and there something
we need to talk about no The Messengers they
came with a direct clearcut message and they
delivered it as it was given from Allah subhanahu
wa'ta'ala and we will see that in the Quran also
we will know or we will notice that the messengers
they had firm belief in monotheism they worshiped
Allah alone if there was anyone who worshiped
anything with Allah or besides Allah they were
not messengers of Allah subhanahu wa'ta'ala they
worshiped Allah alone and they believed in the
Unseen and they promoted the Unseen and they
gave preference to the Hereafter over this life
now the last question we have for this evening
why talk about stories of the prophets in the
Quran why why does Allah make mention of these
stories well Allah answers the question who can
there be better than Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
to answer the question and Allah says [Applause]
[Applause]
indeed in the stories of the previous Nations
and in the stories of the prophets are lessons
for those with s intellect Allah says it was not
fabricated it was not at all fabricated but it
is a lesson and the details of everything
are made mention of for those who believe
we need to believe so Allah says it is a
lesson for us when the people of Noah may
peace be upon him when the people of noat wasam
transgressed how long did they transgress for
for many many years what was the result we all
know they were drowned in the floods they were
destroyed so what will happen Allah subhanahu
wa ta'ala is showing all of us that look it
might appear to you that the forces of evil
are winning and the forces of goodness are
losing but Allah says don't worry it's just a
matter of time when we pull we pull completely
and Allah says always the winners are those
who are in the force of goodness always Maybe
not immediately But ultimately and this is
why Allah speaks about entry into Jenna and
he says do you think it's going to be easy to
enter into Jenna do you think it's going to be
simple do you think you're going to enter Jenna
without a test this life is a test Allah says
[Music]
Allah says do you think you are going to enter
Jenna and that which Afflicted those before you
has not yet come to you they were test tested
and they were shaken and they were tested in so
many different ways with trials and tribulations
with war and sickness until the messengers from
amongst them said when is the help of Allah
going to come imagine for a messenger who is
sent by Allah to say when is the help of Allah
going to come and then Allah says then we said
low the help of Allah is very near Subhan Allah
which means you are tested right to your Peak
I always like to give the example of a school
the higher you go the greater the test the more
difficult it is and remember your life is not
in the school your life the real life that you
are living is outside the school I mentioned this
on Friday so those who don't understand that the
life in the school is just a test and they need
to work as hard as possible whether they like
the school or not whether they like the work or
not whether they like the teachers or not whether
they enjoy the uni wearing the uniform or not
they need to wear the uniform they need to work
hard they need to try their best they will pay in
order to attend the school and they must write the
exams every so often and every time they write an
exam they will have a higher qualification than
the previous exam and when they graduate they
will now with that certificate be able to do
whatever they want in the world the higher the
qualification the more chances you have let us
take that example and put it into our lives our
life compared to the and the life after death
is like a school so we are in the school now we
will have tests every year every second year we
will have so many difficulties we will have to
dress in a specific uniform in a specific way
we will have to do certain things we will have to
engage in things we may not like or they may be
difficult to engage in and every time you write
a test you have a certificate of a higher level
and the the the greater the test the more the
love of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala and then when
we die what will happen we have the ultimate
certificate we can do what we want thereafter
in the when you have all a what will happen Allah
will [Applause] say enter into Jenna with peace
here's your certificate and Allah speaks about
it in the Quran how he will give it in the right
handbar may he give us all our books in the right
hand this is the month of Ramadan we need to earn
the Forgiveness of Allah let us take this month
seriously let us make an effort every day to
fulfill thewi correctly and to try and listen
to a message or two on a daily basis to make
an effort with the Quran to fast properly to try
and change our lives bad habits need to be kicked
out music CDs need to be changed with quranic
CDs and with the message of Allah subhah wa
ta'ala we will be asked life is too short so many
people are dying there are people who've passed on
just before the month of Ramadan where were
they Allah did not accept them to see the
month of Ramadan or we can word it differently
Allah had mercy upon them and took them away
may Allah open our doors indeed we are blessed
by Allah subhanahu wa'ta'ala to be gathered in
his home there are people as we are speaking who
are suffering across the globe and I'm talking of
Muslim who are homeless who were wealthy moments
ago but they are being bombarded on a daily basis
whether it is in IA whether it is in Afghanistan
or Pakistan or Iraq or Somalia or Sudan wherever
it is on the globe in Palestine anywhere on the
globe there are so many who are unable to gather
in this manner that we have gathered here this
evening so let us take this as a gift of Allah
let us never feel too lazy because if we are not
to seize the opportunities that Allah gives us
they will stop at some point and we will not be
able to then have the opportunities may Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us the ability to seize
the opportunities when he has given them to us he
says that I give you the opportunity of your
good health you should seize it before it does
not exist anymore or before sickness overtakes you
your life before death overtakes you your wealth
before poverty overtakes you your free time before
occupation overtakes you your youth before old age
overtakes you it's important for us to make use
of this inshallah we are we will meet here by the
will of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala tomorrow at the
same time and we will commence with the stories
of the creation of man and we hope and pray that
Allah accept us all and grant us every form of
[Music]
goodness Allah Allah
Allah Allah Allah Allah Allah Allah Allah